So now we have built a app, we can
choose moods and we have a history tab. We
can see passports. But you will notice that if
I reload our app, then the history is wiped
. And obviously this is not very handy because I
would like to have an actual history of my moods
. So the data is currently stored in memory and
we lose it when we relaunch. So the way
to prevent this is that we need to physically store
the data in on the device so that if you
were to close the app and reopen or even just
reload the average JavaScript we would still have our past
moods on the web. You're probably already familiar with
local storage and there is an equivalent in react native
is called a sting storage. It kind of works
the same way um, as local storage. But
the difference is that it is, as the name
suggests, a synchronous, anything that you store in
local storage has to be serialized able. And in
layman's terms, this basically means you can't store objects
or functions waiting like that or classes or references.
So it needs to be strange numbers because we call
to string um, on the value that we're going
to stall. Easy storage is a native library.
So let's copy this, install command and we'll open
up terminal and install the library and for girls.
Well cd into the directory and Poland still. So
you'll see the library that's going to install and let's
go back to our root directory and run on IOS
or you can always run your app through X code
instead for android, there's no need to install packages
. Just rebuild your app using an android or rebuild
via Andrew studio so stop and restart. So for
the api for racing storage is pretty straightforward. So
if we look at the docks we have get item
set items, merge items from the item, get
all keys um and clear which are the ones that
I mostly end up using. So let's look at
the function signatures. So get item you pass in
a string key. So this will be a sand
boxed kind of um so it will be scoped to
europe so for example you wouldn't be able to get
the item from another apps facing storage so that just
works similar to local storage. So you'll get the
item by key and usually we will store things by
chasing but you can just store individual strings as well
. Um and then we get the value for set
item, it's pretty much the same but we just
set the item by key. So we take two
arguments. The first one is the key and the
second one is the value that you want to set
. This value needs to be a strength. Then
we have clear to clear the whole lacing storage.
You have removed item, two rooms particular item and
another handy one is get all keys. So this
is get all of the keys that are ever set
for this app, see if the build is finished
. Ah excellent timing. So if we go to
our app provider um let's start by importing a sink
storage from react native. I think it's a react
native complete package. Mm There it is. So
reactivating storage using storage and she's going to quickly check
what I call the functions so I'll be consistent Agriculture
. Okay. Okay. So let's figure out what
we want are updated to look like. So let's
do type up data and we just want to store
the mood list which will be a mood option with
timestamp. So generally things that you store in a
sink storage. It's good to have them as situation
objects because then you can always add keys. Let's
also do a constant for our key. So that's
quite my cup data with the turkey as to a
set up data. Yeah. So this takes in
the app data that we want to save. We
should be of type app data and it doesn't return
anything so we'll use void. So to do this
we'll do const result equals eating storage dot get set
item and we'll use the data care and well Jason
string of fire our appetite to now this is an
a sink function. So I want to await it
. So I need to make this into an a
sink. Arrow function. Mm Okay. And this
is actually telling me that oh you said that is
going to return void but actually it's a promise.
So I'm going to add promise. So it's a
synchronous and then it's going to return in nothing.
Yeah and we don't actually need the result. So
we just get the up data, we started tracing
storage and then do nothing. It's good practice to
also surround us in a try catch because you don't
really want JavaScript errors here and if update a for
some reason um was wasn't what you were expecting?
You don't really want errors here. So I usually
do try catch Yeah and cannot do anything with it
. Alright, let's do another one for actually getting
the app data. So const get up data.
So this will also be an easing function. We
don't have any arguments but it returns a promise with
up data and let's do another try catch here.
Mhm. And we'll do a const of result and
we'll await facing storage get item. So this is
why it's nice to pull these out to a constant
just to make sure that we use the same key
and that's it. So this gives us the results
and we'll also because we Jason string of fires are
updated here, we want to Jason passed the result
. So we'll do return well we also need to
account for when the result is undefined. So we'll
do if result because obviously on initial launch this will
just be no uh return Jason Pass and result.
Okay, okay. And we also need a default
value. So let's do return null by default and
we also need to tell our promise that we do
this. So just as a side note about TypeScript
so I don't actually need to type these return types
. So if I hover over this, you can
look at the function signature so it goes okay,
it takes up data and returns an empty promise.
If I remove this, this is where the study
co checking comes to play if I remove this and
hover over it, TypeScript already knows this. So
actually this return type is superfluous uh which is quite
handy, so it's nice like it can be nice
to add it just to check sanity check your things
or if it's not returning what you thought it was
returning, but in this case we don't actually need
to explicitly type it. I was just looking in
get up data here, we kind of do want
to say that if it's updated or null. So
if we don't type it, you can see that
it's going to say, oh it returns a promise
of any, which isn't correct. So in this
case we want to type it, that's a good
example again and then in this case it doesn't matter
because we returned nothing. Cool, so we want
to get and set this on launch. So let's
do a used effect. So if we do a
used effect with an empty dependency array, it gets
run at lunch. And so use a news effect
. You can't run asynchronous functions but obviously this is
a synchronous so we around it is you can define
an asynchronous function inside you use effect and just call
it. So let's do bitch data. This will
be an a sync function and we'll do constant data
equals get up data. So this will be a
thing. So we need to await it and if
data remember the default value for it is No.
Then we set the mood list to be data dot
mood list. And here let's just call pitch and
potato. So that's to get the initial data.
But we also need to save the data whenever we
make a change. So just a quick way of
doing it is I'm going to do it inside this
handle. Select mood callback. So let's make this
not an implicit return to make this into an explicit
return and const new mood list. We should be
this value. So we still want to return it
. But also before we return it, let's set
up data and let's do mood list to be the
new mood list. All right. That should be
all the vets reload to be clear. And let's
add some moods. So we've got to move here
and let's reload and is still there. Now if
I actually completely close the app and reopen it,
they're still there so they get persisted across launches